Assessing United States county-level exposure for research on tropical cyclones and human health
G. Brooke Anderson1,* , Joshua Ferreri1,2 , Mohammad Al-Hamdan3 , William Crosson3 , Andrea Schumacher4 , Seth Guikema5 , Steven Quiring6 , Dirk Eddelbuettel7 , Meilin Yan1 , and Roger D. Peng8
Department of Environmental & Radiological Health Sciences, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO, 80523 2 University of Colorado Denver School of Medicine, Aurora, CO, 80045 3 Universities Space Research Association, NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, AL, 35805 4 Cooperative Institute for Research in the Atmosphere, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO, 80523 5 Department of Industrial and Operations Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 48109 6 Department of Geography, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, 43210 7 Debian and R Projects; Department of Statistics, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Champaign, IL, 61820 8 Department of Biostatistics, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, 21205 * Corresponding author: G. Brooke Anderson, brooke.anderson@colostate.edu, 1681 Campus Delivery, Fort Collins, CO, 80523
1

Acknowledgments
This work was supported in part by grants from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (R00ES022631), the National Science Foundation (1331399), the Department of Energy (Grant No. DE-FG02-08ER64644), and a National Aeronautics and Space Administration Applied Sciences Program/Public Health Program Grant (NNX09AV81G). Rainfall data are based on data acquired as part of the mission of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Earth Science Division and archived and distributed by the Goddard Earth Sciences (GES) Data and Information Services Center (DISC).

Abstract Background: Tropical cyclones bring severe impacts to United States (US) communities, including substantial human health risks, from hazards that include wind, rain, flooding, and tornadoes. However, studies quantifying tropical cyclone risks and impacts vary widely in how they classify exposure to tropical cyclones, using various hazard-based metrics and, in some cases, using distance from the storm track as a surrogate. Objectives: (1) Investigate how well county-level assessments of tropical cyclone exposure agree when based on distance versus hazard-based measurements, as well as among assessments based on different hazard measurements, and (2) provide software to improve tropical cyclone exposure assessment for health-related research. Methods: We measured county-level exposure to tropical cyclones in the US based on distance from the storm track, maximum sustained wind, rainfall, flooding, and tornadoes for all landfalling or near-land Atlantic basin storms, for 1996 ­ 2011 for all metrics and up to 1988 ­ 2015 for specific metrics. We quantified how well county-level exposure assessment agreed for all pairwise combinations of metrics. Results: In most of the storms investigated, agreement in county-level exposure assessment was at best moderate, and often poor, when using distance compared with four hazard-based measurements. There was also substantial disagreement in exposure assessment based on all pairwise combinations of the four hazard-based measurements. There were geographic patterns in exposures based on these metrics, with most wind-based exposures near the coast, flood- and rain-based exposures extending to inland and northern counties, and tornado-based exposures in southern counties. Discussion: Our results suggest that when impact studies use distance as a surrogate for tropical cyclone exposure, or use one hazard-based metric when the impact is partly or fully caused by a different hazard, the study will be prone to exposure misclassification. To facilitate future research, we make this multi-hazard storm exposure data available through open-source software.

Introduction
Recently, several major tropical cyclones have hit United States (US) cities, including Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria in 2017 and Hurricanes Florence and Michael in 2018. Researchers are currently exploring how these storms impacted human health (e.g., [Maria refs, others?]), including through projects funded through NIH Rapid Response grants [NIH RePorter ref]. Evidence from this research will add to evidence from previous hurricanes, including Sandy in 2012 [refs] and Katrina in 2005 [refs], which found these storms can create substantial risk not only for accidental health outcomes (e.g., drowning, crushing deaths and injuries, electrocution, carbon monoxide poisoning) but also for non-accidental, non-communicable diseases [refs]. A recent review highlights the need to supplement such single-storm and descriptive analyses with larger-scale studies, to identify patterns that are common across multiple storms [ref], and while large-scale studies of hurriance impacts exist based on disaster surveillance data, studies based on administrative data could identify risks for non-accidental mortality and morbidity that those studies likely miss or underestimate. Multi-storm studies with administrative data require exposure assessment that is consistent across time and space, allowing the administrative data to be linked to disaster exposure [ref]. Key to expanding tropical cyclone epidemiology are therefore exposure assessment methods that appropriately capture hazards of the storm that are relevant to human health, methods that can be applied consistently across multiple storms, locations, and years. The National Hurricane Center (NHC)'s "Best Tracks" dataset is considered the gold standard in recording the location and central intensity of Atlantic-basin tropical cyclones. This data is provided through the revised Atlantic hurricane database (HURDAT 2) dataset, a post-storm assessment conducted by the US NHC that incorporates data from a variety of sources, including satellite data and, when available, aircraft reconnaissance data (Landsea and Franklin 2013; Jarvinen and Caso 1978). This dataset records the central position of a storm every six hours (at the synoptic times of 6:00 am, 12:00 pm, 6:00 pm, and 12:00 am Coordinated Universal Time (UTC)) as well as measures of the storm's minimum pressure and central maximum sustained winds. From the "Best Tracks" data, it is straightforward to measure whether a study location was in the direct path, or within a certain distance of the path, of a storm using geographical software. Some studies have used distance to a storm's track, based directly on this storm tracking data, to assess average exposure patterns to tropical storms [refs] or for characterizing exposure for health studies [refs]. The use of distance from a storm's track to characterize exposure to a storm's hazards, however, could result in exposure misclassification in epidemiologic research. Tropical cyclones vary dramatically in size: US tropical cyclones have been observed with radii to maximum winds as small as 20 km and as large as 200 km (Mallin and Corbett 2006; Quiring et al. 2011). While a number of tropical cyclone hazards are strongly associated with distance from the tropical cyclone's center (e.g., wind and, at the coast, storm surge and waves (Rappaport 2000; Kruk et al. 2010)), other hazards like dangerous rain, floods, and tornadoes can occur well away from the tropical cyclone's central track (Rappaport 2000; Atallah, Bosart, and Aiyyer 2007; Moore and Dixon 2012). For example, fatal tropical cyclone tornadoes, which were linked to over 300 deaths in the US between 1995 and 2009, most often occur 200 ­ 500 km from the tropical cyclone's center (Moore and Dixon 2012). Further, studies that have used distance-based exposure metrics have tended to use an equal buffer distance on each side of the tropical cyclone track (e.g., Czajkowski, Simmons, and Sutter 2011; Grabich, Robinson, et al. 2015; Grabich, Horney, et al. 2016; Zandbergen 2009; Tansel and Sizirici 2010), but the forces of a tropical cyclone tend to be distributed around the center in a non-symmetrical way. For example, extreme winds are more common to the right of the track, where counter-clockwise cyclonic winds move in concert with the tropical cyclone's forward motion (Halverson 2015), and the fatal tornadoes associated with US tropical cyclones between 1995 and 2009 occurred almost

exclusively to the right of the tropical cyclone's track, mostly in the right front quadrant of the tropical cyclone (Moore and Dixon 2012). Rain, conversely, is often heaviest to the left of the tropical cyclone's track, especially when the tropical cyclone interacts with other weather systems (Atallah and Bosart 2003; Atallah, Bosart, and Aiyyer 2007; Zhu and Quiring 2013) or undergoes an extratropical transition (Elsberry 2002). If a study misclassifies exposure to the hazard or hazards that cause an impact, estimates of tropical cyclone risks or impacts will be biased, making it hard to identify true associations. The use of different exposure metrics across studies hampers the development of a scientific consensus on tropical cyclone-related risks, as study results could differ solely from differences in exposure assessment. These concerns are particularly important if there are large differences in the locations that are determined to be exposed based on different metrics. To investigate this, and to provide open-source data on tropical cyclone exposures to other researchers, we developed a dataset of county-level exposure to tropical cyclones in all eastern US counties for five different metrics (Table 1): (1) distance to tropical cyclone track; (2) maximum sustained wind speed; (3) cumulative rainfall; (4) flood events; and (5) tornado events. We assessed exposure at the county level since data on many potential impacts are available at county-level aggregations (e.g., direct hurricane-related deaths (Czajkowski, Simmons, and Sutter 2011); birth outcomes (Grabich, Robinson, et al. 2015; Grabich, Horney, et al. 2016); autism prevalence (Kinney et al. 2008)) and since decisions and policies to prepare for, and respond to, tropical cyclones are often undertaken at the county level (Zandbergen 2009; Rappaport 2000). We explored patterns in these exposure assessments and measured how well exposure classification agreed across these five metrics in terms of classifying specific counties as exposed to a tropical cyclone. Finally, to make this hazard-specific tropical cyclone exposure data available to other researchers, we published open source software for county-based hurricane exposure assessment in US counties (Anderson, Yan, et al. 2017).

Methods and Materials
This study covered all counties in the eastern half of the US (Figure 1), as of the 2010 US Decennial Census. The study covered all tracked land-falling or near-land Atlantic-basin tropical cyclones between 1988 and 2015 by considering all 136 storms in HURDAT 2 (Landsea and Franklin 2013) that came within 250 km of at least one eastern US county in this period (Figure 1).

Distance-based exposure metric
We first measured how close each study storm came to each study county. We started with tracking data from HURDAT 2, which records the storm center's position every 6 h, and interpolated this position to 15-min intervals using natural cubic splines (Anderson, Yan, et al. 2017). At each 15min interval, we measured the distance between the storm's center and each county's population mean center, (Bivand, Pebesma, and Gomez-Rubio 2013) as assessed by the 2010 Decennial Census (US Census Bureau 2015). These measurements captured the distance between the storm's central track and each study county throughout the storm tracking period. We identified the minimum distance for each county as a measure of the closest distance between the storm and that county over the course of the storm. We also recorded the time the storm came closest to each county, for use in assessing rain-, flood-, and tornado-based metrics, for which observed data on hazards needed to be matched by time to storm events. To allow matching with data based on local time, times were converted from UTC to local time (Anderson and Guo 2016).

Rain-based exposure metric
To measure storm-associated rainfall in each county, we used re-analysis data. Re-analysis data integrate data from multiple sources, including satellite-based and ground-based monitoring, using a land-surface model to combine data in a dataset that is spatially and temporally complete [ref]. By comparison, observations from ground-based monitoring networks typically have missing values spatially (i.e., for some study counties), temporally (for some days), or both. We used the North American Land Data Assimilation System Phase 2 (NLDAS -2) re-analysis dataset, which is available for the continental US [ref]. We used precipitation measurements that were aggregated to the county level from the NLDAS -2 precipitation data files for the Centers for Disease Control's [check] WONDER [check] database (US CDC 2016) previously by two of us (Al-Hamdan [check] and Crosson) (Al-Hamdan et al. 2014; US CDC 2016). To create this aggregated data originally, we aggregated the hourly 1/8 data from the NLDAS -2 precipitation data files by summing at each grid point by day. This created a daily precipitation total, which we then averaged across all grid points within a county's 1990 US Census boundaries (Al-Hamdan et al. 2014; US CDC 2016). The resulting daily county-level precipitation estimates are available for all study counties for 1988 ­ 2011 (US CDC 2016); given the location of storm-affected counties and the typical timing of tropical cyclones, these precipitation measures are likely almost all rainfall, although occasionally they may represent snowfall or other types of precipitation. We matched these data by date with storm tracks, using the date when each storm was closest to each county. The cumulative storm-associated precipitation was then calculated as the sum of precipitation from two days before the storm's closest approach to a county to one day after, since storm-related rains often precede the passing of the storm's center. To validate these precipitation estimates, we compared them with ground-based observations in a subset of study counties. We selected nine sample counties geographically spread across storm-prone regions of the eastern US and for which precipitation data were available from multiple stations throughout the study period, including during storm exposures: Miami-Dade, FL; Harris County, TX; Mobile County, AL; Orleans Parish, LA; Fulton County, GA; Charleston County, SC; Wake County, NC; Baltimore County, MD; and Philadelphia County, PA. We collected ground-based observations of precipitation data from all stations in the county with available daily data in the Global Historical Climatology Network throughout 1988 ­ 2011 (Menne et al. 2012; Chamberlain 2017; Severson and Anderson 2016). We summed daily station-specific measurments for two days before to one day after each storm's closest approach and then averaged these cumulative station-based precipitation totals for each county to create a countywide estimate of cumulative storm-related precipitation. We measured the rank correlation (Spearman's  (Spearman 1904)) between storm-specific cumulative precipitation estimates for the two data sources within each sample county.

Wind-based exposure metric
Ground-based observations of wind speed are problematic for measuring exposure to tropical cyclones, as instruments often fail at high wind speed, while reanalysis data--often available at hourly or higher resolution--can lack a fine enough temporal resolution to capture wind extremes associated with a tropical cyclone. Therefore, to create a dataset of county-level sustained winds during historical tropical cyclones, we modeled maximum sustained wind speeds at each county's population mean center (US Census Bureau 2015), using a wind speed model based on results from Willoughby (Willoughby, Darling, and Rahn 2006). For each storm, we modeled maximum ground-level sustained wind speed at each county center at 15-min increments throughout the storm tracking period, using a double exponential wind speed model with inputs for the storm's forward speed, direction, and central wind speed (Willoughby, Darling, and Rahn 2006; Anderson, Schumacher, Guikema, et al. 2017). This model incorporates the

asymmetry in wind speeds around the tropical cyclone center that results from the storm's forward movement (Phadke et al. 2003; Anderson, Schumacher, Guikema, et al. 2017). We then identified the maximum sustained surface wind speed in each county during each storm. To validate these modeled county-level wind speed estimates, we compared them to the post-season wind radii values that have been routinely included in HURDAT 2 since 2004 (Knaff et al. 2016). These wind radii provide a metric of storm size, estimating the maximum distance from the storm's center to which winds at or above a certain threshold extend, giving separate estimates for four quadrants of the storm to capture asymmetry in the storm's wind field (Knaff et al. 2016). These estimates are based on a post-season re-analysis that incorporates available data (e.g., satellite data, aircraft reconnaissance and ground-based data if available). Wind radii are estimated for three thresholds of maximum surface wind speeds: 64, 50, and 34 kn. They therefore allow for the classification of counties into four categories of maximum sustained wind speeds: <34 kn; 34 ­ 49.9 kn; 50 ­ 63.9 kn; 64 kn. We interpolated the wind raddi data to 15-min increments and classified a county as exposed to winds in a given wind speed category if its population mean center was within 85% of the maximum radius for that wind speed in its quadrant of the storm, as previous research has found that this ratio helps capture average wind extents within a quadrant from these maximum wind radii (Knaff et al. 2016). We compared these wind radii-based estimates of county-level maximum sustained surface winds during a storm with the modeled wind speed estimates, comparing all study storms since 2004 that showed some evidence of bringing high winds to at least one study county (as determined by at least one study county having a sustained wind of 34 kn based on the HURDAT 2 wind radii). For each of these storms, we calculated the percent of study counties that were classified in the same wind speed category based on both data sources.

Flood- and tornado-based exposure metrics
To identify flood- and tornado-based tropical cyclone exposures in US counties, we used event listings from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)'s Storm Event Database (NOAA NCEI 2017). For each tropical cyclone, we identified all events with event types related to flooding ("Flood", "Flash Flood", "Coastal Flood") and tornadoes ("Tornado") and that occurred in a county within 500 km of the tropical cyclone's track and with a start date within a five-day window centered on the date of the tropical cyclone's closest approach to the county (Anderson, Schumacher, Crosson, et al. 2017). "Flood", "Flash Flood" and "Tornado" events in this database were reported by county Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) code and so could be directly linked to counties. "Coastal Flood" events were reported by forecast zone; for these, the event was matched to the appropriate county if possible using regular expression matching of listed county names (Anderson and Chen 2017). While this database has recorded storm data since 1950, its coverage changed substantially in 1996 to cover a wider variety of storm events (NOAA NCEI 2017). We therefore only considered these metrics of hurricane exposure for tropical cyclones in 1996 and later. The tornado observations from this dataset form a traditional tornado event database for the US [ref?], and so we did not conduct analyses to validate the tornado event data. It is difficult to characterize flooding at the county level because flooding can be very localized and can be triggered by a variety of causes. To investigate the extent to which the NOAA flood event data captures extremes that might be identified with other flooding data sources, we investigated a sample of study counties, comparing the flood event data during tropical storms with streamflow measurements at US Geological Survey county streamflow gages (USGS 2016; Lammers and Anderson 2017; Hirsch and De Cicco 2015). We considered nine study counties, selecting counties geographically spread through stormprone areas of the eastern US and with multiple streamflow gages reporting data during events:

Baltimore County, MD; Bergen County, NJ; Escambia County, FL; Fairfield County, CT; Fulton County, GA; Harris County, TX; Mobile County, AL; Montgomery County, PL; and Wake County, NC. For each county, we first identified all streamflow gages in the county with complete data for Jan. 1 1996 ­ Dec. 31, 2015. If a storm did not come within 500 km of a county, it was excluded from this analysis, but all other study storms were considered. For each storm and county, we summed daily total streamflow across all streamgages for each day in the five-day window around the storm's closest approach. We took the maximum daily streamflow total during those five days as a measure of the county's maximum streamflow during that storm. We also calculated the percent of streamflow gages in the county with a daily streamflow that exceeded a threshold of flooding (the streamgage's median value for annual peak flow (Lammers and Anderson 2017)) on any day during the five-day window. We investigate how these measurements varied between storms with associated flood events in the NOAA Storm Events data versus storms without an event listing, to explore if storms with flood event listings tended to be associated with higher streamflows at gages within the county.

Binary storm exposure classifications based on different metrics
In our open-source dataset, we provide the closest distance of each storm to each county, as well as county-level storm-related winds and rainfall, as continuous metrics. However, epidemiologic studies of tropical cyclones often compare "exposed" versus "unexposed" communities to assess storm-related health risks [refs], and so we also used these continuous metrics to classify counties as "exposed" or "unexposed" and explored patterns in storm exposure based on these binary clasifications. Two of the exposure metrics (flood- and tornado-based) were inherently binary, since these metrics were based on whether an event was listed in the NOAA Storm Events database. For the other exposure metrics, each county was classified as exposed to a tropical cyclone based on whether the exposure metric exceeded a certain threshold (Table 1). For the rainfall metric, a distance constraint was also necessary, to ensure that rains unrelated and far from the storm track were not misattributed to a storm. Through exploratory analysis, we set this distance metric at 500 km (i.e., for a county to be classified as exposed based on rainfall, the cumulative rainfall had to be over 75 mm and the storm must have passed within 500 km of the county; Table 1). We set this distance constraint at a value that was typically large enough to capture storm-related rain. However, data users should note that in rare examples of exceptionally large storms (e.g., Hurricane Ike in 2008) or storms for which storm tracking was stopped at extratropical transition (e.g., Tropical Storm Lee in 2011), some storm-related rains may be missed because of this distance constraint (Figure S1). We assessed patterns in county-level tropical cyclone exposure in the eastern US based on each exposure metric. Depending on available exposure data, this assessment included some or all of the period from 1988 to 2015 (Table 1). For each binary metric of tropical cyclone exposure (Table 1), we first summed the total number of county-level exposures over available years for each exposure metric and mapped patterns in these exposures. We next investigated agreement between storm exposure classifications based on different exposure metrics. We calculated the within-storm Jaccard index (Jaccard 1901; Jaccard 1908) between each pair of exposure metrics. The Jaccard index (Js ) measures similarity between two metrics (X1,s and X2,s ) for tropical cyclone s as the proportion of counties in which both of the metrics classify the county as exposed out of all counties classified as exposed by at least one of the metrics: Js = X1,s  X2,s X1,s  X2,s (1)

This metric can range from 0, in the case of no overlap between the counties classified as exposed based on the two metrics, to 1, in the case that the two metrics classify exactly the same set

of counties as exposed to the tropical cyclone. We measured these values for all study storms that affected a large number of eastern US counties (those storms with 250 or more of the study counties classified as exposed by at least one of the exposure metrics) during the years when all exposure data were available (1996 ­ 2011).

Case study: Physical exposure of electricity-dependent Medicare beneficiaries to tropical cyclones
Disasters' societal impacts depend both on the geophysical forces of the disaster and on the vulnerability of those living in the affected geographical areas (Chakraborty, Tobin, and Montz 2005; Anderson-Berry 2003; Cutter 1996). As a case study, we explored how differences in tropical cyclone exposure assessments across different exposure metrics might influence estimates of physical exposures of a susceptible population to tropical cyclones. We calculated expected average physical exposures among electricity-dependent Medicare beneficiaries in eastern US counties to tropical cyclones based on each exposure metric. This subpopulation was selected since it may be particularly susceptible to health impacts from tropical cyclone exposure, especially through the pathway of storm-associated power outages and evacuations. We collected data on the number of electricity-dependent Medicare beneficiaries in each study county from the US Department of Health & Human Service's emPower Map 2.0 (US HHS 2016). We then calculated the physical exposure of the electricity-dependent Medicare population in each county, based on tropical cyclone assessments using each hazard metric, following (Peduzzi et al. 2009): Ec = Fc  Pc (2)

where Ec is the average yearly physical exposure among electricity-dependent Medicare beneficiaries in county c to tropical cyclone exposures based on a given metric, Fc is the estimated yearly expected frequency of tropical cyclone exposures in county c based on that metric, and Pc is the electricity-dependent Medicare population in county c, as of July 2017.

Results
Exposure assessment data, data validation, and software
Open-source dataset We created and published the open source data with multi-year, countylevel tropical cyclone exposure data for eastern US counties, as described in the Methods (Anderson, Schumacher, Crosson, et al. 2017). These data include continuous county-level measurements for the closest distance of each storm, cumulative rainfall, and maximum sustained surface wind speed. These continuous metrics can be used for classifying counties as exposed or unexposed, using thresholds selected by the user, or can be used as continuous metrics. The dataset also include binary data on flood and tornado events associated with each storm in each county. With these data, we published software tools to explore and map the data and to integrate it with human health datasets (Anderson, Yan, et al. 2017). We explored potential limitations in these data by comparing them with data from other available sources. For estimates of storm-associated rainfall, we compared estimates from NLDAS2 re-analysis precipitation data (used as the rainfall estimates in the open-source data) with ground-based observations in nine sample counties (Figure 2). Within these counties, stormrelated rainfall measurements were well-correlated between the two data sources, with rank correlations (bottom right of each graph in Figure 2) between 0.87 and 0.98. There was some evidence that the reanalysis data may tend to underestimate rainfall totals in storms with extremely high rainfall, based on a few heavy-rainfall storms in Harris County, TX, Mobile County, AL, Charleston County, SC, and Wake County, NC (Figure 2). However, even in these cases, it

was rare for a storm to be classified differently (under the precipitation threshold of 75 mm we used for binary exposure classification for later analysis) based on the source of precipitation data--horizontal and vertical lines in each small plot in Figure 2 show the threshold of 75 mm, so storms in the lower left and upper right quadrants would be classified the same ("exposed" or "unexposed") regardless of the precipitation data source, while storms in the upper left and lower right quadrants would be classified differently. For maximum sustained surface wind speed estimates, we found that the modeled estimates, which we included as the primary wind exposure metric in the open source data and used for further analysis in this study, generally agreed well with estimates based on the wind radii reported in HURDAT 2. For most storms, 95% of counties were assigned the same category of wind speed (<34 kn; 34 ­ 49.9 kn; 50 ­ 63.9 kn; 64 kn) by both data sources (Figure 3). Disagreement was limited to large storms that were characterized by high winds well inland, like Hurricanes Sandy in 2012 and Ike in 2008. For these two storms, the modeled wind speed values somewhat overestimated the extent of the storm's most severe winds at landfall but then underestimated the extent of 34 ­ 49.9 kn storm winds further inland (Figure S2). For researchers who would like to conduct sensitivity analysis between these two sets of wind data, we have included estimates from the HURDAT 2 wind radii as a secondary measure of wind speeds in the open-source dataset (Anderson, Schumacher, Crosson, et al. 2017). For flood data, we compared flood status, based on event listings in the NOAA Storm Events database, to streamflow measurements at US Geological Survey gages within nine sample counties (Figure 4). Across the sampled counties, streamgage data generally indicated higher discharge during periods identified as flood events based on the NOAA Storm Events database, particularly in counties with more reporting stream gages (e.g., Harris County, TX, with 10 reporting stream gages; Figure 4). There were some cases, however, where the two flooding data sources were somewhat inconsistent. For example, there were one or two tropical cyclones in several of the counties (Mobile County, AL, Escambia County, FL, and Montgomery County, PA) that were classified as flood events based on NOAA storm event listings but for which the total discharge across county streamflow gages was below the 25th percentile of measurements taken during storms that did not have a flood event listing. For tropical cyclones that did not have an associated flood listing in the NOAA Storm Events database, most had lower total streamflow discharge across county gages compared to storms with flood event listings, and in all cases but one all gages were below the flooding threshold. The exception was one storm in Fulton County, GA (Hurricane Ida in 2009).

Patterns in tropical cyclone exposures in eastern

US

counties

We used the storm exposure metrics to classify counties as exposed or unexposed to specific tropical cyclones, and we explored patterns in these exposure classifications over years with available data (Table 2). Across the five exposure metrics, there was wide variation in the average number of county exposures per year. For the tornado metric, there were approximately 50 county exposures per year, on average, within our study. For flood and wind metrics, there were substantially more county exposures (>200 / yr on average), and even more when assessing exposure using the distance and rain metrics (>400 / yr on average). We also measured the average number of county exposures per storm under each exposure metric (limiting this analysis to the tropical cyclones that exposed at least one county to that hazard; Table 2). Tropical cyclones typically exposed only a few counties, if any, to tornadoes (median counties exposed per storm: 7), more counties under the flood and wind metrics (median: 26 and 34, respectively), and even more counties for the metrics of rain (median: 68) and distance (median: 84). For every metric except the tornado-based metric, we identified at least one tropical cyclone with over 300 counties exposed. However, the largest-extent tropical cyclone varied by metric (e.g., Beryl in 1994 exposed the most counties based on distance,

Frances in 2004 based on rain, and Ike in 2008 based on wind). When we calculated and mapped the average number of exposures per decade in each county for each exposure metric (Figure 5), strong geographical patterns were clear. Wind-based exposure had a strong coastal pattern, with almost all exposures in counties within about 200 km (124 mi) of the coastline. While exposures by rain- and distance-based metrics were also more common in coastal areas compared to inland areas, they also created inland exposures that were not identified by the wind-based metric. Rain and, to some extent, flood exposures were characterized by a pattern defined by the Appalachian Mountains, with many fewer exposures west of the mountain range than to the east. Almost all tornado-based exposures were in coastal states, with most in Florida, Alabama, South Carolina, and North Carolina and almost none north of Maryland. Flood-based exposures were highest in North Carolina and along the South Carolina coast, as well as further north in New Jersey, southeastern Pennsylvania, and southeastern New York. Notably, some areas of the US that experienced regular exposures to tropical cyclone-related excessive rainfall and floods were not identified as areas of regular risk based on the more commonly used tropical cyclone exposure assessment metrics of wind or distance (Figure 5). Patterns were similar when analysis was restricted to years with all exposure data available (1996 ­ 2011; Figure S3).

Agreement in county-specific exposure classification between exposure metrics
Next, we measured the agreement between exposure classifications for each pair of metrics. We found that these exposure classifications typically did not strongly agree between pairs of metrics, indicating that the set of counties identified as exposed based on one metric can have limited overlap with the set of counties identified as exposed to the storm by another metric. Figure 6 shows Hurricane Ivan in 2004 as an example. For the distance-based metric, the counties assessed as exposed followed the tropical cyclone's track, including counties well inland. For the wind metric, only counties near two of the tropical cyclone's landfalls were assessed as exposed. For rain- and flood-based metrics, however, exposure extended to the left of the track, including counties as far north as New York and Connecticut, while for the tornado metric, exposed counties tended to be to the right of the track and included several counties in central North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia that were not identified as exposed to Ivan based on any other metric. Figure S4 provides similar maps for four other example tropical cyclones (selected because they exposed many US counties based on at least one metric), and Figure S5 provides four examples of tropical cyclones in which the disagreement in exposure assessment between rain- and wind-based metrics was particularly notable. We drew similar conclusions when we investigated all 46 tropical cyclones between 1996 and 2011 (the period for which all five metrics were available) for which 250 or more counties were exposed based on at least one metric (Figure 7). In this figure, each row provides results for a specific tropical cyclone, and each box in that row shows the measured Jaccard coefficient between two of the exposure metrics for that storm. For most tropical cyclones, distance-based county-level exposure assessment was at best in moderate agreement with exposure assessments based on the four hazard-based metrics. For almost all tropical cyclones, Jaccard index values between distance and any of the four hazard-based metrics were  0.6 (i.e., out of the counties assessed as exposed to the tropical cyclone by at least one of the two metrics considered, 60% or fewer of the counties had the same exposure assessment under the two metrics). For many tropical cyclones, the Jaccard index values were  0.2, suggesting very poor agreement in exposure assessment between the metrics. Among the four hazard-based metrics, the tornadobased metric showed universally poor agreement with other metrics in county-level classification across all tropical cyclones considered. For other pairs of metrics, there were also generally large differences in which counties were determined to be exposed, with the Jaccard index values < 0.4 for most metric pairs in most tropical cyclones.

There were, however, a few exceptions -- tropical cyclones in which similar sets of counties were determined to be exposed to the tropical cyclone for several of the metrics considered. For Floyd in 1999 (Figure S4) and Irene in 2011, for example, county-level classification agreed moderately to well (Jaccard index of  0.5 ­ 0.8) for all pairs of exposure metrics except those including the tornado-based metric. For another set of tropical cyclones (e.g., Lee in 2011 [Figure S3], Ernesto in 2006, and Bertha in 1996), there was moderate to good agreement for all pairwise combinations of distance, rain, and wind, but poor agreement for all other combinations of metrics. However, these two sets of tropical cyclones represented the minority of all tropical cyclones considered; for most tropical cyclones, there was low overlap in the counties determined to be exposed to the tropical cyclones between most pairings of metrics.

Case study
Finally, we conducted a case study to investigate how these differences in exposure assessment across the exposure metrics could affect estimates of expected physical exposure among a vulnerable subpopulation, electricity-dependent Medicare beneficiaries. Figure 8 shows the study counties with the highest expected physical exposures in this subpopulation based on each exposure metric. A few counties (Miami-Dade County, FL; Harris County, TX) were ranked in the top three counties for expected physical exposure in this subpopulation for almost all exposure metrics (Figure 8). However, there were key differences across exposure metrics. For example, most of the top counties based on wind- and tornado-based metrics were in Florida, while over half of the counties with highest expected physical exposures for the flood-based metric were in Mid-Atlantic states (PA, NY).

Discussion
Tropical cyclones impact public health in many ways, and epidemiological studies of the health risks and impacts associated with tropical cyclone exposures could help improve preparedness for and response to future tropical cyclones. However, tropical cyclones are multi-hazard events, making it complicated to measure exposure. Here, we provide open-source county-level data on multiple storm exposure metrics, and we find that county-level tropical cyclone exposure assessments vary substantially when using a distance-based metric versus four hazard-based metrics, as well as among different hazard-based metrics. Our results can inform exposure assessment for future county-level studies of the health risks and impacts associated with tropical cyclones exposures, and the open-source data and software we have created provides multi-hazard, county-level exposure data for such studies.

Exposure assessment data and software
In creating this hurricane exposure dataset, we aimed for data that are available for all eastern US counties. In addition to providing tropical cyclone exposure metrics for individual hazards, this data and its associated software allow users not only to access measurements for single hazards, but also to create tropical cyclone exposure profiles based on multiple hazards or craft exposure indices that combine hazard metrics (Chakraborty, Tobin, and Montz 2005; Peduzzi et al. 2009). This ability can be critical, as different hazards of tropical cyclones often act synergistically in causing impacts (Smith and Petley 2009). We investigated how well these data correspond with data from other available sources (Figures 2 ­ 4 and S2). While generally in agreement, there are a few caveats that should be considered when applying these data in future studies. The rainfall data are generally wellcorrelated with observed ground-based station data, but may sometimes oversmooth very high rainfall values compared to ground-based observations (Figure 2). When rainfall data is used to

create binary exposure classifications, this disagreement is unlikely to influence results, as both data sources agree in identifying these as storms with high rainfall, but it may be important to consider for cases that include rainfall as a continuous measurement. The wind data are based on modeled, rather than observed, values, and while the modeled wind data generally agree well with post-analysis maximum wind radii from HURDAT 2 (Landsea and Franklin 2013) (Figure 3), there were a few storms where the two datasets did not agree as well (<90% of counties classified into the same wind categories by the two sources of wind estimates). These storms were exceptionally large systems for which high winds persisted well inland from landfall, like Hurricanes Sandy and Ike (Figures 3 and S2). Since the wind radii are based on a storm-specific re-analysis of available data, they have the advantage that they can capture unusual patterns in specific storms; their main disadvantage is that they provide categorical, rather than continuous, estimates of wind speed, and in many cases researchers might prefer more precise estimates of storm wind speeds. However, since the wind radii data may be useful in some cases as either a primary metric or for sensitivity analysis, we have include county-level wind estimates for each storm based on these wind radii, in addition to the continuous modeled windspeeds, in the open-source data (Anderson, Schumacher, Crosson, et al. 2017). For the flooding events data, we found event status during tropical cyclones often agreed with measurements from US Geographical Survey streamgages, with flood event listings more likely during storms which elevated stream flows (Figure 4). However, there are differences between the two flooding datasets, and these highlight both the difficulty of measuring flood exposure at the county level and inherent challenges in using data from a storm event database for epidemiologic exposure assessment. For example, there was one storm in Fulton County, GA, for which there was high streamflow but not an associated flood event listing (Hurricane Ida, 2009). This storm occurred in November 2009, following a month with historic rainfall and flooding in Georgia (Shepherd et al. 2011). Therefore, in this case the flooding associated with Ida was incorporated into an ongoing flood event listing, with a start date well before the five-day window used to temporally match storm event listings with tropical cyclone tracks used here. This highlights the difficulty of large-scale pairing of storm tracks with storm event listings--without criteria for temporally matching event dates to storm tracks, it is likely that many "false positives" would be captured, for which the occurrance of a storm in the midst of an ongoing storm event listing would be improperly attributed to the storm. However, any criteria like this also open the opportunity for occasional "false negatives", like Ida in Fulton County, GA, where a storm contributes meaningfully to an ongoing event, but the event is not captured for the storm. There are further limitations for the flood and tornado data--these data came from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Storm Events database, which, while a widely-used database of events maintained by NOAA, is based on reports, and so may be prone to underreporting (Ashley and Ashley 2008; Curran, Holle, and L´ opez 2000), especially in less populated areas (Witt et al. 1998; Ashley 2007), as well as to other reporting errors. While these are important caveats for the data, we selected these data sources as among the best currently available for measuring each of these hazards at a multi-county, multi-year scale.

Patterns in tropical cyclone exposures
We found geographic patterns in tropical cyclones based on the different exposure metrics (Figure ??). These patterns were not unexpected based on what is known about tropical cyclone hazards, but still highlight variations across metrics that are critical to consider in designing studies for tropical cyclone epidemiology, and they demonstrate the need for multi-hazard exposure datasets for tropical cyclone epidemiology. Wind-based exposures had a strong coastal pattern, which is consistent with the dramatic decrease in wind intensity that typically characterizes the landfall of tropical cyclones. Exposures by rain- and distance-based metrics often

extended further inland compared to the wind-based metric, up to the Appalachian mountains. This agrees with previous research indicating that the Appalachian mountains' topography both enhances precipitation during tropical cyclones and provides hydrological conditions for severe flooding (Sturdevant­Rees et al. 2001). Almost all tornado-based exposures were in southern coastal states, echoing previous findings that most noteworthy tropical cyclone-related tornadoes occur on the right-side of the tropical cyclone track in Atlantic-basin US storms (Moore and Dixon 2012). These exposure averages are somewhat limited as estimates of long-term frequencies, as tropical cyclones follow decadal patterns (Kossin and Vimont 2007) likely not adequately captured in the available data. However, exposure assessments spanning over a century have found similar patterns for distance- and wind-based metrics Zandbergen (2009) and Kruk et al. (2010) [double-check that refs found similar patterns].

Agreement between exposure metrics
We found that there was typically only moderate or low agreement when comparing the sets of counties classified as "exposed" to a tropical cyclone by different metrics (Figures 6 ­ 7 and S4 ­ S5). This suggests that the use of one of these metrics as a proxy for all storm-based hazards in epidemiological research would often be problematic, introducing exposure misclassification. These findings align with previous results from atmospheric science and related fields on the characteristics of tropical cyclones. While tropical cyclone rainfall and windspeed are often well-correlated when the tropical cyclone is over water (Cerveny and Newman 2000), this relationship often does not remain as strong once the hurricane has made landfall (Jiang et al. 2008). Fast-moving tropical cyclones bring higher risks of dangerous winds inland (Kruk et al. 2010), while slow-moving tropical cyclone are likely to bring more rain (Rappaport 2000) and cause more damage because of sustained hazardous conditions (Rezapour and Baldock 2014). Further, while the likelihood and extent of flooding during a tropical cyclone is related to the tropical cyclone's rainfall, it is also driven by factors like top soil saturation and the structure of the water basin's drainage network (Chen, Kumar, and McGlynn 2015; Sturdevant­Rees et al. 2001). However, we did find a small set of tropical cyclones for which for which agreement between metrics were unusually high (e.g., Floyd in 1999, Irene in 2011, Hannah in 2008, Bertha in 1996; Figure 7). Hurricanes Floyd in 1999 (Figure S4) and Irene in 2011 both made their first US landfall in North Carolina at minor hurricane windspeeds (Category 2 and 1, respectively) and then skimmed the eastern coast of the US north through New England, bringing large rainfall to much of the eastern coast from North Carolina north and causing extensive inland flooding in North Carolina (Floyd) and New England (Irene) (Avila and Stewart 2013; Lawrence et al. 2000). Hurricanes Hannah in 2008 and Bertha in 1996 followed the eastern coastline north of North Carolina in a pattern similar to Floyd and Irene. For this set of storms, the tropical cyclones' persistent proximity to water may have helped maintain wind speeds in similar patterns to rain and distance exposures, resulting in this moderate to good agreement among exposure assessments based on different metrics. In some cases, exposure misclassification from using one of these exposure metrics to capture exposure to one or more of the other storm hazards may be differential (i.e., associated with the outcome of interest or with factors associated with risk of the outcome of interest). For example, tropical cyclone wind exposures tend to be concentrated in counties near the coast, since most tropical cyclones rapidly decrease in their sustained windspeed following landfall. However, tropical cyclone exposures based on distance can extend well inland, following the tropical cyclone's tracks, but may not adequately capture all wind-exposed counties near the coast. In this case, if the etiologically-relevant exposure is high wind but exposure is classified based on distance, the probability of being misclassified as unexposed would be higher in coastal counties, while the probability of being misclassified as exposed would be higher in inland counties.

If coastal counties differ from inland counties in either the outcome of interest or in factors associated with risk of that outcome, differential exposure misclassification would exist (Savitz and Wellenius 2016). Such differential exposure misclassification can bias estimates of tropical cyclone effects either towards the null (estimating a lower or null association compared to the true association that exists) or away from the null (estimating a larger association than actually exists) (Savitz and Wellenius 2016; Armstrong 1998).

Case study
The conducted case study demonstrates how differences in exposure assessment across storm exposure metrics can result in differing estimates of expected physical exposure to tropical cyclones among a population (Figure 8). Previous assessments of physical exposure to tropical cyclones have often focused on solely storm winds and storm proximity. For example, a global study of exposure and vulnerability to natural hazards used a combination of windspeed above a certain threshold and distance from the storm's track to assess exposure (Peduzzi et al. 2009). While many storm impacts might be most strongly linked to wind hazards, there is a growing recognition of the potential risks of adverse health outcomes and property damage from rainand flood-related tropical cyclone hazards in the US (Smith and Petley 2009). Such assessments may underemphasize potentially dangerous exposures to certain regions of the US, particularly inland locations. In fact, based on our assessment of physical exposures to tropical cyclones among electricity-dependent Medicare beneficiaries, the highest expected physical exposure under any metric was measured for Philadelphia County, PA, under the flood metric (Figure 8). While this county has a similar-sized population of electricity-dependent Medicare beneficiaries as Miami-Dade County, FL (Figure 8), the frequency of storm-related flood events in this inland county results in a very high expected physical exposure among this subpopulation, while this county is not included in the top ten counties for physical exposure based on most of the other exposure metrics.

Conclusions
Previous research has highlighted the range of impacts that tropical cyclones can have in US communities. However, studies of tropical cyclone exposures and their impacts have varied widely in how they assess exposure. Here we found large differences in which counties are exposed to different hazards of tropical cyclones and that distance is, at best, a moderate, and often a very poor, surrogate for exposure to the specific tropical cyclone hazards of high wind, extreme rainfall, flooding, and tornadoes. Use of distance as a surrogate for any of these hazards could lead to exposure misclassification and, in the case of tropical cyclone risk and impact studies, including epidemiological studies, result in biased estimates. Similarly, if such studies disagree on their findings, it could result from the often poor agreement between exposure classifications based on these different metrics, making studies that use different metrics hard to compare or combine in meta-analyses. Our findings highlight the importance of clarifying the potential pathway from tropical cyclone hazards to health impacts when conducting tropical cyclone epidemiological studies, and then basing exposure assessment on these hazards. To help, we provide open-source tropical cyclone hazard-related measurements for a large collection of historical Atlantic-basin cyclones, aggregated at the county level to align with the spatial scale at which much health-related data is collected.

References
Al-Hamdan, Mohammad Z et al. (2014). "Environmental public health applications using remotely sensed data". Geocarto International 29 (1), 85­98. Anderson-Berry, Linda J (2003). "Community vulnerability to tropical cyclones: Cairns, 1996­ 2000". Natural Hazards 30 (2), 209­232. Anderson, G. Brooke and Ziyu Chen (2017). noaastormevents: Explore NOAA Storm Events Database. R package version 0.1.0. URL: https://github.com/zailchen/noaastormevents. Anderson, G. Brooke and Zhiming Guo (2016). countytimezones: Convert from UTC to Local Time for United States Counties. R package version 1.0.0. URL: https://github.com/geanders/ countytimezones. Anderson, G. Brooke, Andrea Schumacher, William Crosson, et al. (2017). hurricaneexposuredata: Data Characterizing Exposure to Hurricanes in United States Counties. R package version 0.0.2. URL : https://github.com/geanders/hurricaneexposuredata. Anderson, G. Brooke, Andrea Schumacher, Seth Guikema, et al. (2017). stormwindmodel: Model Tropical Cyclone Wind Speeds. R package version 0.1.0. URL: https://CRAN.R-project.org/ package=stormwindmodel. Anderson, G. Brooke, Meilin Yan, et al. (2017). hurricaneexposure: Explore and Map County-Level Hurricane Exposure in the United States. R package version 0.0.1. URL: https://cran.rproject.org/package=hurricaneexposure. Armstrong, Ben G (1998). "Effect of measurement error on epidemiological studies of environmental and occupational exposures". Occupational and Environmental Medicine 55 (10), 651­656. Ashley, Sharon T and Walker S Ashley (2008). "Flood fatalities in the United States". Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology 47 (3), 805­818. Ashley, Walker S (2007). "Spatial and temporal analysis of tornado fatalities in the United States: 1880-2005". Weather and Forecasting 22 (6), 1214­1228. Atallah, Eyad H. and Lance F. Bosart (2003). "The extratropical transition and precipitation distribution of Hurricane Floyd (1999)". Monthly Weather Review 131, 1063­1081. Atallah, Eyad, Lance F Bosart, and Anantha R Aiyyer (2007). "Precipitation distribution associated with landfalling tropical cyclones over the eastern United States". Monthly Weather Review 135 (6), 2185­2206. DOI: 10.1175/MWR3382.1. Avila, Lixion A and Stacy R Stewart (2013). "Atlantic hurricane season of 2011". Monthly Weather Review 141 (8), 2577­2596. Bivand, Roger S., Edzer Pebesma, and Virgilio Gomez-Rubio (2013). Applied Spatial Data Analysis with R. NY: Springer. Cerveny, Randall S. and Lynn E. Newman (2000). "Climatological relationships between tropical cyclones and rainfall". Monthly Weather Review 128, 3329­3336. Chakraborty, Jayajit, Graham A Tobin, and Burrell E Montz (2005). "Population evacuation: assessing spatial variability in geophysical risk and social vulnerability to natural hazards". Natural Hazards Review 6 (1), 23­33. Chamberlain, Scott (2017). rnoaa: 'NOAA' Weather Data from R. R package version 0.7.0. URL: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=rnoaa. Chen, Xing, Mukesh Kumar, and Brian L. McGlynn (2015). "Variations in streamflow response to large hurricane-season storms in a southeastern US watershed". Journal of Hydrometeorology 16, 55­69. DOI: 10.1175/JHM-D-14-0044.1. Curran, E Brian, Ronald L Holle, and Ra´ ul E L´ opez (2000). "Lightning casualties and damages in the United States from 1959 to 1994". Journal of Climate 13 (19), 3448­3464. Cutter, Susan L (1996). "Vulnerability to environmental hazards". Progress in Human Geography 20 (4), 529­539.

Czajkowski, Jeffrey, Kevin Simmons, and Daniel Sutter (2011). "An analysis of coastal and inland fatalities in landfalling US hurricanes". Natural Hazards 59, 1513­1531. DOI: 10.1007/ s11069-011-9849-x. Elsberry, Russell L. (2002). "Predicting hurricane landfall precipitation: optimistic and pessimistic views from the symposium on precipitation extremes". Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society 83 (9), 1333­1339. Grabich, S. C., J. Horney, et al. (2016). "Measuring the storm: methods of quantifying hurricane exposure with pregnancy outcomes". Natural Hazards Review 17 (1), 06015002. DOI: 10. 1061/(ASCE)NH.1527-6996.0000204. Grabich, S. C., Whitney R. Robinson, et al. (2015). "County-level hurricane exposure and birth rates: application of difference-in-differences analysis for confounding control". Emerging Themes in Epidemiology 12, 19. DOI: 10.1186/s12982-015-0042-7. Halverson, Jeffrey B. (2015). "Second wind: The deadly and destructive inland phase of East Coast hurricanes". Weatherwise 68 (2), 20­27. DOI: 10.1080/00431672.2015.997562. Hirsch, Robert M. and Laura A. De Cicco (2015). "User guide to Exploration and Graphics for RivEr Trends (EGRET) and dataRetrieval: R packages for hydrologic data". Techniques and Methods. Reston, VA: U.S. Geological Survey. Chap. A10. URL: https://pubs.usgs.gov/tm/ 04/a10/. Jaccard, Paul (1901). "Distribution de la flore alpine dans le bassin des Dranses et dans quelques r´ egions voisines". Bulletin de la Soci´ et´ e Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles 37, 241­272. et´ e Vaudoise des -- (1908). "Nouvelles recherches sur la distribution floral". Bulletin de la Soci´ Sciences Naturelles 44, 223­270. Jarvinen, Brian R. and Eduardo L. Caso (1978). "A tropical cyclone data tape for the North Atlantic basin, 1886-1977: Contents, limitations, and uses". NOAA Technical Memorandum NWS NHC 6. Jiang, Haiyan et al. (2008). "Hurricane 'rainfall potential' derived from satellite observations aids overland rainfall prediction". Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology 47, 944­959. DOI : 10.1175/2007JAMC1619.1. Kinney, Dennis K et al. (2008). "Autism prevalence following prenatal exposure to hurricanes and tropical storms in Louisiana". Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders 38 (3), 481­488. Knaff, John A et al. (2016). "Using routinely available information to estimate tropical cyclone wind structure". Monthly Weather Review 144, 1233­1247. Kossin, James P and Daniel J Vimont (2007). "A more general framework for understanding Atlantic hurricane variability and trends". Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society 88 (11), 1767­1781. Kruk, Michael C. et al. (2010). "A climatology of inland winds from tropical cyclones for the Eastern United States". Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology 49, 1538­1547. DOI: 10.1175/2010JAMC2389.1. Lammers, Rod and G. Brooke Anderson (2017). countyfloods: Quantify United States CountyLevel Flood Measurements. R package version 0.0.2. URL: https://CRAN.R-project.org/ package=countyfloods. Landsea, Christopher W. and James L. Franklin (2013). "Atlantic hurricane database uncertainty and presentation of a new database format". Monthly Weather Review 141, 3576­3592. Lawrence, Miles et al. (2000). "Atlantic Hurricanes: Floyd's Fury Highlighted Another AboveAverage Year". Weatherwise 53 (2), 39­43. Mallin, Michael A. and Catherine A. Corbett (2006). "How hurricane attributes determine the extent of environmental effects: Multiple hurricanes and different coastal systems". Estuaries and Coasts 29 (6A), 1046­1061. Menne, Matthew J et al. (2012). "An overview of the Global Historical Climatology Network-- Daily database". Journal of Atmospheric and Oceanic Technology 29 (7), 897­910.

Moore, Todd W. and Richard W. Dixon (2012). "Tropical cyclone-tornado casualties". Natural Hazards 61, 621­634. DOI: 10.1007/s11069-011-0050-z. Murtagh, Fionn and Pedro Contreras (2012). "Algorithms for hierarchical clustering: an overview". Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery 2 (1), 86­97. National Hurricane Center (2017). Tropical Cyclone Naming History and Retired Names. http: //www.nhc.noaa.gov/aboutnames_history.shtml. Accessed: 2017-03-21. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's National Centers for Environmental Information (2017). Storm Events Database. https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/stormevents/. Accessed: 2017-03-23. Peduzzi, Pascal et al. (2009). "Assessing global exposure and vulnerability towards natural hazards: the Disaster Risk Index". Natural Hazards and Earth System Sciences 9 (4), 1149. Phadke, Amal C et al. (2003). "Modeling of tropical cyclone winds and waves for emergency management". Ocean Engineering 30 (4), 553­578. Quiring, Steven et al. (2011). "Variations in mean annual tropical cyclone size in the Atlantic". Journal of Geophysical Research: Atmospheres 116 (D9). Rappaport, Edward N. (2000). "Loss of life in the United States associated with recent Atlantic tropical cyclones". Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society 81 (9), 2065­2073. Rezapour, Mehdi and Tom E. Baldock (2014). "Classification of hurricane hazards: the importance of rainfall". Weather and Forcasting 29, 1319­1331. Savitz, David A and Gregory A Wellenius (2016). Interpreting Epidemiologic Evidence: Connecting Research to Applications. Oxford University Press. Severson, Rachel and G. Brooke Anderson (2016). countyweather: Compiles Meterological Data for U.S. Counties. R package version 0.1.0.9000. Shepherd, Marshall et al. (2011). "An overview of synoptic and mesoscale factors contributing to the disastrous Atlanta flood of 2009". Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society, 861­870. Smith, Keith and David N. Petley (2009). Environmental Hazards: Assessing Risk and Reducing Disaster. Taylor and Francis. Spearman, Charles (1904). "The proof and measurement of association between two things". The American Journal of Psychology 15 (1), 72­101. Sturdevant­Rees, Paula et al. (2001). "Tropical storms and the flood hydrology of the central Appalachians". Water Resources Research 37 (8), 2143­2168. Tansel, Berrin and Banu Sizirici (2010). "Significance of historical hurricane activity on structural damage profile and posthurricane population fluctuation in South Florida urban areas". Natural Hazards Review 12 (4), 196­201. United States Census Bureau (2015). Centers of Population. https://www.census.gov/geo/ reference/centersofpop.html. Accessed: 2017-03-21. United States Centers for Disease Control (2016). North America Land Data Assimilation System (NLDAS) Daily Precipitation years 1979­2011 on CDC WONDER Online Database. http://www. nhc.noaa.gov/aboutnames_history.shtml. http://wonder.cdc.gov/wonder/help/Precipitation.html. United States Department of Health and Human Services (2016). HHS emPOWER Map 2.0. https://empowermap.hhs.gov. Accessed: 2017-07-15. United States Geological Survey (2016). National Water Information System data available on the World Wide Web (USGS Water Data for the Nation). https://waterdata.usgs.gov/nwis/. Accessed: 2018-02-26. Willoughby, HE, RWR Darling, and ME Rahn (2006). "Parametric representation of the primary hurricane vortex. Part II: A new family of sectionally continuous profiles". Monthly Weather Review 134 (4), 1102­1120. Witt, Arthur et al. (1998). "An enhanced hail detection algorithm for the WSR-88D". Weather and Forecasting 13 (2), 286­303.

Zandbergen, Paul A. (2009). "Exposure of US counties to Atlantic tropical storms and hurricanes, 1851­2003". Natural Hazards 48, 83­99. DOI: 10.1007/s11069-008-9250-6. Zhu, Laiyin and Steven M Quiring (2013). "Variations in tropical cyclone precipitation in Texas (1950 to 2009)". Journal of Geophysical Research: Atmospheres 118 (8), 3085­3096.

Table 1: Exposure metrics considered to assess county-level exposure to tropical cyclones Metric Distance Rain Available 1988 ­ 2015 1988 ­ 2011 Criteria for exposure Storm track came within 100 km of county population mean center County cumulative rainfall of 75 mm over the period from two days before to one day after the storm's closest approach and the storm track came within 500 km of the county population mean center Modeled storm-associated maximum sustained winds of 15 m s-1 at the county's population mean center Flood event listed in the NOAA Storm Events database for the county with a start date within two days of the storm's closest approach and the storm track came within 500 km of the county population mean center Tornado event listed in the NOAA Storm Events database for the county with a start date within two days of the storm's closest approach and the storm track came within 500 km of the county population mean center

Wind Flood

1988 ­ 2015 1996 ­ 2015

Tornado

1996 ­ 2015

Table 2: Summary statistics for the number of county tropical cyclone exposures under each metric. The median and interquartile range of number of county exposures per tropical cyclone are based on the tropical cyclones for which at least one US county was exposed. The years for which data are available for each metric are given in Table 1. Metric Mean (interquartile range) of county exposures per year 433 (224, 503) 401 (152, 553) 224 (83, 353) 213 (84, 249) 53 (16, 43) Median (interquartile Tropical cyclone with range) of county ex- most counties exposures posures per tropical (# exposed counties) cyclone 84 (23, 173) 68 (14, 146) 34 (8, 80) 26 (6, 57) 7 (2, 16) Beryl, 1994 (330) Frances, 2004 (464) Ike, 2008 (355) Ivan, 2004 (317) Ivan, 2004 (91)

Distance Rain Wind Flood Tornado

Figures

List of Figures
1 States and storms considered in this study. All counties in the states shown in this map were investigated. The lines show the paths of the study storms, which included all tracked storms in 1988 ­ 2015 HURDAT 2 (Landsea and Franklin 2013) that came within 250 km of at least one US county. Thicker lines show the tracks of storms whose names have been retired, indicating that the storm was particularly severe or had notable impacts (National Hurricane Center 2017). Comparison of storm-associated rainfall estimates between a re-analysis dataset (included as the rainfall exposure metric in the open-source data and included in further analysis) and ground-based observations in nine sample counties. The rainfall estimates include rainfall from two days before to one day after the storm's closest approach to the county. Each small graph shows data for one sample county, and each point shows one tropical storm. The number of storms within each county and the average number of stations reporting rainfall during the county's storms are given above each plot. Horizontal and vertical lines in each plot show the threshold of 75 mm used to classify a storm as "exposed" in further analysis (Table 1). Note that x- and y-axis ranges differ by county. Comparison of modeled maximum sustained surface wind speeds (included as the primary wind exposure metric in the open-source data and used in further analysis) with estimates from the HURDAT 2 wind speed radii. Each point represents a storm, with the x-axis giving the percent of counties classified in the same category of maximum sustained surface wind speeds (<34 kn; 34 ­ 49.9 kn; 50 ­ 63.9 kn; 64 kn) by both sets of wind data for that storm. The color of each point indicates the extent of the storm, giving the number of study counties that were exposed to maximum sustained surface wind speeds of at least 34 kn (based on modeled wind speeds). Estimates are shown for [all?] study storms since 2004, the earliest year for which wind speed radii estimates are available in HURDAT 2 [?]. Comparison for a sample of study counties of NOAA Storm Events listings versus five-day total streamflows at county streamflow gages during tropical cyclones. Each small plot shows results for one of the sample counties. Each point represents a single tropical storm, and the point's position along the x-axis shows the highest daily total streamflow (cubic feet per second), summed across all identified streamgages in the county, for a five-day window centered on the day of the storm's closest approach to the county. The y-axis separates storms for which a flood event was reported in NOAA's Storm Events database for the county with a start date within the five-day window of the storm's closest approach to the county. The color of each point gives the percent of streamflow gages in the county with a daily streamflow that exceeded a threshold of flooding on any day during the five-day window. Comparison for a sample of study counties of NOAA Storm Events listings versus five-day total streamflows at county streamflow gages during tropical storms. The number of streamflow gages used in analysis are given in parentheses beside the county's name in the panel title. Each point represents a single tropical storm. Note that the x-axis scales differ by county, depending on the number of streamflow gages and typical flow rates for each gage, and are on a log-10 scale.

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

Average number of storm exposures per decade in U.S. counties for each exposure metric. The criteria behind each of the five metrics is given in Table 1. The years used to estimate these averages are based on years of available exposure data (distance and wind: 1988 ­ 2015; rain: 1988 ­ 2011; flood and tornado events: 1996 ­ 2015). Counties classified as exposed to Hurricane Ivan in 2004 under each exposure metric considered (Table 1). The red line shows the track of Hurricane Ivan based on the revised Atlantic hurricane database HURDAT 2 (Landsea and Franklin 2013). Similar maps for other large-extent storms are given in Figure S3. Agreement between exposure classifications based on different exposure metrics for all storms between 1996 and 2011 for which at least 250 counties were exposed based on at least one metric. Each row shows one storm, and the color of each cell shows the measured Jaccard index for each pair of exposure metrics (proportion of counties classified as exposed by both metrics out of storms classified as exposed by either metric). The colors to the right of the main heatmap for each storm indicate the total number of counties classified as exposed to the storm by any of the five metrics, providing an indication of each storm's extent. Storms are displayed within clusters that have similar patterns in county-level exposure agreement for metric pairs, based on hierarchical clustering using the complete link method (Murtagh and Contreras 2012); columns are also ordered based on hierarchical clustering. Maps are available showing the counties identified as exposed under each of five metrics for the widest-extent storm in each cluster: Hurricane Ivan in 2004 (Figure 6) and Hurricanes Floyd in 1999, Lee in 2011, Cindy in 2005, and Katrina in 2005 (Figure S3). Study counties with the highest expected physical exposure per year among electricity-dependent Medicare beneficiaries for each exposure metric. The color of each bar indicates the number of Medicare beneficiaries in the county reliant on electricity-dependent medical and assistive equipment as of July 2017. The length of each bar shows the average expected physical exposure to tropical cyclones among this population based on a given exposure metric, i.e., the expected number of these electricity-dependent Medicare beneficiaries exposed to tropical storms per year based on that metric.

Figure 1: States and storms considered in this study. All counties in the states shown in this map were investigated. The lines show the paths of the study storms, which included all tracked storms in 1988 ­ 2015 HURDAT 2 (Landsea and Franklin 2013) that came within 250 km of at least one US county. Thicker lines show the tracks of storms whose names have been retired, indicating that the storm was particularly severe or had notable impacts (National Hurricane Center 2017).

Miami-Dade, FL (storms: 57; monitors: 12)

Harris County, TX (storms: 34; monitors: 17)
600

Mobile County, AL (storms: 49; monitors: 7)

Rainfall (mm) from monitors

Rainfall (mm) from monitors

Rainfall (mm) from monitors

200

200

400

100 Spearman's  = 0.93 0 0 100 200

100 Spearman's  = 0.92 0 0 100 200

200 Spearman's  = 0.95 0 0 200 400 600

Rainfall (mm) from NLDAS-2 data

Rainfall (mm) from NLDAS-2 data

Rainfall (mm) from NLDAS-2 data

Orleans Parish, LA (storms: 50; monitors: 6)
300 150

Fulton County, GA (storms: 43; monitors: 5)
200

Charleston County, SC (storms: 67; monitors: 7)

Rainfall (mm) from monitors

Rainfall (mm) from monitors

200

100

Rainfall (mm) from monitors
Spearman's  = 0.95

150

100

100 Spearman's  = 0.87 0 0 100 200 300

50

50 Spearman's  = 0.94 0 0 50 100 150 200

0 0 50 100 150

Rainfall (mm) from NLDAS-2 data

Rainfall (mm) from NLDAS-2 data

Rainfall (mm) from NLDAS-2 data

Wake County, NC (storms: 58; monitors: 10)
200 100

Baltimore County, MD (storms: 32; monitors: 3)

Philadelphia County, PA (storms: 50; monitors: 3)

Rainfall (mm) from monitors

Rainfall (mm) from monitors

Rainfall (mm) from monitors
Spearman's  = 0.94

150

150

100

100

50

50 Spearman's  = 0.98 0 0 50 100 150 200

50 Spearman's  = 0.96 0 0 50 100 150

0 0 50 100

Rainfall (mm) from NLDAS-2 data

Rainfall (mm) from NLDAS-2 data

Rainfall (mm) from NLDAS-2 data

Figure 2: Comparison of storm-associated rainfall estimates between a re-analysis dataset (included as the rainfall exposure metric in the open-source data and included in further analysis) and ground-based observations in nine sample counties. The rainfall estimates include rainfall from two days before to one day after the storm's closest approach to the county. Each small graph shows data for one sample county, and each point shows one tropical storm. The number of storms within each county and the average number of stations reporting rainfall during the county's storms are given above each plot. Horizontal and vertical lines in each plot show the threshold of 75 mm used to classify a storm as "exposed" in further analysis (Table 1). Note that x- and y-axis ranges differ by county.

Kyle-2008 Hermine-2004 Grace-2003 Emily-2005 Don-2011 Cristobal-2008 Bonnie-2010 Bonnie-2004 Arlene-2005 Claudette-2009 Alex-2010 Beryl-2006 Gabrielle-2007 Ana-2015 Edouard-2008 Hermine-2010 Earl-2010 Cindy-2005 Dolly-2008 Bill-2015 Ida-2009 Bill-2003 Ophelia-2005 Erin-2007 Wilma-2005 Beryl-2012 Claudette-2003 Alex-2004 Dennis-2005 Gustav-2008 Debby-2012 Gaston-2004 Fay-2008 Humberto-2007 Rita-2005 Andrea-2007 Isaac-2012 Arthur-2014 Ivan-2004 Frances-2004 Katrina-2005 Charley-2004 Andrea-2013 Hanna-2008 Ernesto-2006 Tammy-2005 Lee-2011 Alberto-2006 Jeanne-2004 Noel-2007 Barry-2007 Irene-2011 Isabel-2003 Ike-2008 Sandy-2012 80.0% 90.0% 100.0%

% of counties classified in same wind category by modeled storm wind and Extended Best Tracks Number of counties with modeled sustained winds of  34 knots

200

400

600

Figure 3: Comparison of modeled maximum sustained surface wind speeds (included as the primary wind exposure metric in the open-source data and used in further analysis) with estimates from the HURDAT 2 wind speed radii. Each point represents a storm, with the x-axis giving the percent of counties classified in the same category of maximum sustained surface wind speeds (<34 kn; 34 ­ 49.9 kn; 50 ­ 63.9 kn; 64 kn) by both sets of wind data for that storm. The color of each point indicates the extent of the storm, giving the number of study counties that were exposed to maximum sustained surface wind speeds of at least 34 kn (based on modeled wind speeds). Estimates are shown for [all?] study storms since 2004, the earliest year for which wind speed radii estimates are available in HURDAT 2 [?].

Baltimore County, MD (7)

Bergen County, NJ (6)
qq q qq q q q qq q q q

Escambia County, FL (2)
q q qq q

Flood event

q

qq

q

qq q qq

q

q

q q

q

q

q

No flood event

qq q q q q q q q qq q q q q qq q q q q q q q qq qq q q q

qq

q

q qq q qq qq q qq q qq q q q q qq q q

q q qq qq q q qq q q q q q q q qq qq qq qq qq q q

q

1000 Fairfield County, CT (5)
q q q q q q q q q q q

100

1000

10000

1000

10000

Fulton County, GA (6)
q q q q q q q q

Harris County, TX (10)
q q q

Flood event

q

q

qq

No flood event

q q q q qq qq qq q qq qq q qq q q q qq q qq q

q

q qqq q q qqq q q qq q q q q q q q

q

q

q q q qq q q qq q qq q q q q q q q qq q q

100

1000

10000 Montgomery County, PA (5)
q q q qq q q

1000

10000

Mobile County, AL (5)
q q q q qq q q q q

Wake County, NC (3)
qq q q q q qq q q q q q q qq q

Flood event

qq

q

q

q

qq qqq

No flood event

q q q q

q q qq q q q q q qq qq q q qqq q q

q q q

q q q

qq q qq q

qq q q q q q q q q qq qq q q q q

q q

q q q q q q qq q q q qq q q q qq q qq q qq q q q q qq q

q

100

1000

10000

1000

10000

1000

10000

Total discharge across county streamflow gages % streamflow gages over threshold for flooding
0% 50% 100%

Figure 4: Comparison for a sample of study counties of NOAA Storm Events listings versus five-day total streamflows at county streamflow gages during tropical cyclones. Each small plot shows results for one of the sample counties. Each point represents a single tropical storm, and the point's position along the x-axis shows the highest daily total streamflow (cubic feet per second), summed across all identified streamgages in the county, for a five-day window centered on the day of the storm's closest approach to the county. The y-axis separates storms for which a flood event was reported in NOAA's Storm Events database for the county with a start date within the five-day window of the storm's closest approach to the county. The color of each point gives the percent of streamflow gages in the county with a daily streamflow that exceeded a threshold of flooding on any day during the five-day window. Comparison for a sample of study counties of NOAA Storm Events listings versus five-day total streamflows at county streamflow gages during tropical storms. The number of streamflow gages used in analysis are given in parentheses beside the county's name in the panel title. Each point represents a single tropical storm. Note that the x-axis scales differ by county, depending on the number of streamflow gages and typical flow rates for each gage, and are on a log-10 scale.

Distance-based metric

Rain-based metric

Wind-based metric

Flood-based metric

Tornado-based metric

Hits per county per decade

0-1 1-2

2-3 3-4

4-5 5-6

6-7 7-8

8+

Figure 5: Average number of storm exposures per decade in U.S. counties for each exposure metric. The criteria behind each of the five metrics is given in Table 1. The years used to estimate these averages are based on years of available exposure data (distance and wind: 1988 ­ 2015; rain: 1988 ­ 2011; flood and tornado events: 1996 ­ 2015).

Distance-based metric

Rain-based metric

Wind-based metric

Flood-based metric

Tornado-based metric

Unexposed Exposed

Figure 6: Counties classified as exposed to Hurricane Ivan in 2004 under each exposure metric considered (Table 1). The red line shows the track of Hurricane Ivan based on the revised Atlantic hurricane database HURDAT 2 (Landsea and Franklin 2013). Similar maps for other large-extent storms are given in Figure S3.

Floyd (1999) Irene (2011) Hanna (2008) Ernesto (2006) Isabel (2003) Bertha (1996) Josephine (1996) Barry (2007) Earl (1998) Charley (2004) Gaston (2004) Alberto (2006) Lee (2011) Matthew (2004) Bonnie (2004) Cindy (2005) Hanna (2002) Ida (2009) Arlene (2005) Grace (2003) Frances (1998) Tammy (2005) Helene (2000) Kyle (2002) Barry (2001) Gordon (2000) Fran (1996) Ike (2008) Ivan (2004) Erin (2007) Frances (2004) Jeanne (2004) Fay (2008) Gustav (2008) Dennis (2005) Hermine (2010) Allison (2001) Bill (2003) Isidore (2002) Danny (1997) Dennis (1999) Lili (2002) Rita (2005) Bonnie (1998) Georges (1998) Katrina (2005)

Figure 7: Agreement between exposure classifications based on different exposure metrics for all storms between 1996 and 2011 for which at least 250 counties were exposed based on at least one metric. Each row shows one storm, and the color of each cell shows the measured Jaccard index for each pair of exposure metrics (proportion of counties classified as exposed by both metrics out of storms classified as exposed by either metric). The colors to the right of the main heatmap for each storm indicate the total number of counties classified as exposed to the storm by any of the five metrics, providing an indication of each storm's extent. Storms are displayed within clusters that have similar patterns in county-level exposure agreement for metric pairs, based on hierarchical clustering using the complete link method (Murtagh and Contreras 2012); columns are also ordered based on hierarchical clustering. Maps are available showing the counties identified as exposed under each of five metrics for the widest-extent storm in each cluster: Hurricane Ivan in 2004 (Figure 6) and Hurricanes Floyd in 1999, Lee in 2011, Cindy in 2005, and Katrina in 2005 (Figure S3).

na Fl do oo / d W D / T in is ta or n d R nce ad ai n / o W / To Torn in d r n ad D / F ado o is ta loo R nce d ai n / D / F Floo is lo ta od d R nce ai n / D / W Rai is ta ind n nc e /W in d
Jaccard index

To r

0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0
# of counties exposed

600 500 400 300 200

Distance-based metric Miami-Dade County, FL Palm Beach County, FL Harris County, TX Broward County, FL Pinellas County, FL Hillsborough County, FL Orange County, FL Brevard County, FL Allegheny County, PA Philadelphia County, PA Flood-based metric Philadelphia County, PA Kings County, NY Harris County, TX Bexar County, TX Allegheny County, PA Wake County, NC Suffolk County, NY Nassau County, NY Queens County, NY Montgomery County, PA 0 2,000 4,000 Miami-Dade County, FL Palm Beach County, FL Duval County, FL Broward County, FL Lee County, FL Hillsborough County, FL Polk County, FL Brevard County, FL Pasco County, FL Mobile County, AL 6,000 0 Harris County, TX Miami-Dade County, FL Lee County, FL Mobile County, AL Pinellas County, FL Broward County, FL Brevard County, FL Duval County, FL Palm Beach County, FL Kings County, NY

Rain-based metric Harris County, TX Miami-Dade County, FL Palm Beach County, FL Broward County, FL Brevard County, FL Polk County, FL Lee County, FL Pinellas County, FL Hillsborough County, FL Horry County, SC Tornado-based metric 0

Wind-based metric

2,000

4,000

6,000

# of electricity-dependent Medicare beneficiaries in the county
12,000 9,000 6,000

2,000

4,000

6,000

Average # of electricity-dependent Medicare beneficiaries exposed per year

Figure 8: Study counties with the highest expected physical exposure per year among electricitydependent Medicare beneficiaries for each exposure metric. The color of each bar indicates the number of Medicare beneficiaries in the county reliant on electricity-dependent medical and assistive equipment as of July 2017. The length of each bar shows the average expected physical exposure to tropical cyclones among this population based on a given exposure metric, i.e., the expected number of these electricity-dependent Medicare beneficiaries exposed to tropical storms per year based on that metric.

